Welcome back everyone to this lecture on object oriented programming.
Object Oriented Programming or opii allows programmers to create their own objects that have methods
and attributes.
Recall that after the finding a string list dictionary or any other built in object with python we actually
have the ability it's called methods off of them using that method name syntax.
For example if you define the string you're able to call upper off that string to make uppercase Orphy
had a list you're able to call a pen to add something to that list these methods actis functions that
use information about the object as well as the object itself to return results or to just effects them
for a change on the current object.
For example like I just said that would include appending something to a list or counting the occurrences
of an element in a tuple O.P. allows users to create their own objects.
The general format is often pretty confusing when you first encounter it and its usefulness may not
be completely clear at first.
In general opii allows us to create code that is repeatable and organized and we really start diving
into a flask.
We're going to be using it quite a bit so it's important to have a solid foundation on it right now.
So again for much larger scripts of Python code such as the ones we're going to be creating the flask
functions by themselves aren't going to be enough for organization and repeatability commonly repeated
tasks and objects should be defined of O.P. to create code that is more usable.
So let's check out the syntax.
So here you have the basic syntax for object oriented programming.
Let's go over some of the keywords before hopping over to the text editor to explore some examples.
So we start off with the keyword class and then we decide on the name of the class and notice here.
Now I'm no longer following that snake casing of everything lowercase and underscores instead of classes
the convention is Camel casing.
Basically we have uppercase or capitalized letters and then every new word has a capitalized letter
so we say a name of class that way later on your code you can easily distinguish between a function
and a class.
So once we defined our class we have this init method and this is going to allow us to initialize the
actual class and notice here how it has a couple of keywords such as self and then Parama one and program
to basically what this means is when you create an instance of the class you have the ability to create
some attributes for the class themselves.
So the pram to that you actually pass into the class gets sinked to the instance of the class itself
and that actually uses that self keyword which is shown here.
So basically you're going to pass and Parama to and then that's going to be assigned to that instances
own attribute Parama to and this will make more sense as we actually code examples out in the text editor.
The other common thing to see inside of class is a method call.
And notice how this looks a lot like a function.
It just happens to be inside of a class.
And again it's using that sulpha keyword so using that self keyword.
This is basically going to tell the class to perform some sort of action with information about itself
and maybe some of its parameters.
So in this case it's just asking it to print out one of its attributes or parameters.
OK so we went over the basic syntax but it's not going to make a whole lot of sense until we actually
get our hands dirty and start coding it out.
So let's explore.
Object Oriented Programming with more detail with some code.
Laurie I want to begin this lesson by remembering about basic Python objects.
For instance I could have a list one two 3 and then I could say my list and append something to the
list.
Second call this method off of this list object and in fact pretty much everything in Python is an object
which you can test or check by using the type keyword.
So I can say Type of my list and then we can print out the result of this so that I can actually see
what type of object that is.
So when I run this I get back that its class list and then maybe I'll put in some number there.
So what type is 12 when I run this.
It says it's class I.A. or class Integer and pretty much all your different objects are going to have
some sort of type associated with them.
So let's do twenty three point five.
Save that.
Run it.
And this is class float.
The main idea here is we're not going to be able to create our own class so Ill say class and then whatever
class we created and then our classes are going to have their own methods that we can define.
So let's try this out.
We'll start off by using the class keyword and then you choose a class name that's capitalized.
In our case we'll just call this sample and then you can either have a colon or open and close parentheses.
Either will work fine open in the open and close.
Prince is right now because later on we're going to need them to inherit from other classes.
So we'll say class sample colon and then pass.
Basically this class is totally empty.
It doesn't do anything then I create an instance of the class.
This is really similar to when we're doing something like creating an instance of a set object.
So I'll say x is equal to sample.
Open and close princes.
Let's go ahead and check out the type of this object.
So I'll say what is a type of x.
And when I run this it says hey class main sample.
And at the end of the section the course will talk about this main variable more that you can get the
idea here that we've already been able to create our own ogic type in this case.
It's a really simple object called a sample object.
OK let's expand on this idea by starting to understand attributes for objects in order to do that.
I'm going to create an entirely new class we're going to create a class or a dog object.
So say class dog and then I'm going to use a special method and these special methods are often called
Dunder methods because they have a double set of underscores surrounding them.
So I will say underscore underscore I and I-T underscore underscore and then I'm going to passen the
self parameter and then I'm going to pass on another argument for Breede.
So I have a breed of dog.
They'll say colon and we'll say self-taught breed is equal to breed.
So let's break down what's actually happening here.
We have this in method and this is automatically called right after you create an instance of this object.
And then each attribute in the class definition begins for reference to the actual instance object.
So by convention that's what this self keyword is basically saying we're saying that this particular
instance of the object such as when we say something like x is equal to dog and this case will have
to provide a breed such as lab or saying OK X that instance of the dog that breed is going to be whatever
breed was passed then.
In this case it's a lab.
So let's actually see what happens here.
In fact let's go ahead and then print out the type of x so will run this and we get back.
We have a main dog type.
What's interesting is now off of my doctype I'm going to be able to call breed off of it as an attribute.
So when I read this it says that the type is a string which makes sense but if I just ask for Breit
itself because lab was a string that's going to report back o the breed of the x variable instance of
dog is lab because that's what you find here as the breed.
So all you're doing here is when you call a dog an instance of dog you automatically call this initialization
method and then you in whatever arguments or parameters.
Essentially whatever attributes you want for the object and the system to self.
And in this case it ends up being X..
So X here self that's the connection.
Now we say dots the attribute name is equal to whatever attribute was passed then.
In this case it's lab.
So this is basically saying Breede is equal to lab.
So they're in this again Negat lab.
Often what is confusing for beginners is the fact that we're using Breede here three times breed breed
and self-taught breed just to make it really clear.
I want to show you that you could also say this.
I could say input breed
input breed and then say this and put Breede is let's go ahead and make it like a husky or something.
So what this is saying is when you create an instance of the doll class as I'm doing here a line 6 you're
going to automatically call this init method.
And then there you're going to use the self keyword to assign attributes.
So you're going to say then self essentially becomes X here so X that breed is going to be whatever
you passed in as the input breed.
So you take the input breed and you assign it to self-taught breed which ends up being Huskey.
So when you say Prince X-type breed and you run this you get Huskey.
So notice how this works.
Again you just passing in an input argument for an attribute and then you assign the input argument
to the attribute name.
Now by convention you usually have both the argument and the attribute share the same name which is
then why you see something like breed breed and then breed.
But I wanted to show you that aspect so you don't get confused by saying breed there three times.
So pretty much all the attribute names are going to see them three times one for the argument one for
the assignment and then one for the actual dot attribute call.
OK so let's try adding in another attribute.
So dog should have names so I'll say breed and name and then we'll say that this instance of the dog
self-taught its name is going to be the name that's passed in so we'll save that and then let's provide.
Now we have to change this back to breed.
And in fact we totally don't need to actually say breed is equal to and said it could just say just
pass and husky and then the name of this dog will have it be Sammy.
Now let's have this variable now be called Sam so I can then ask for attributes of Sam I can say what
is Sam that breed or Prince what is Sam dog name and that is here.
Because these are attributes I don't have open and close princes.
Those will be methods that we'll talk about later on
looks for up to have the princes there run this and now I see Huskey and Samie.
So I have this instance of a dog whose breed is husky and Sammy is going to be that dog's name.
So those are the basics for attributes.
Now there are also what are known as class object attributes.
So we can say class object attributes.
And these are attributes that are defined outside any methods of the class.
So it's going to be outside these methods.
And by convention they're the very first thing that comes in before in it the purpose of class object
attributes are for things that are going to be true regardless of the instance of the dog.
So for example we could say that the species of the dog is mammal.
Now technically biologically it's not true.
It's actually a different term it's called class for a mammal but I don't want to get confused with
this keyword.
So just say species.
So if you have some familiar biology that's forgive me.
But anyways we're going to say that all dogs regardless of their breed and regardless of their name
they're always going to be mammals.
So that's why I'm sending this attribute as a class object attribute and because it's a class object
attribute and it's outside as in method.
I actually don't need to use the self-taught keyword to zoom out just a little bit so we can see the
whole picture here.
So again I have this class dog I had this class object attribute.
And when I defined the instance the dog had to provide a breed and the name.
So if I were to say this and run it I won't see anything different.
But now all I have access to that class object attribute which in this case we said whoops not animal
is species.
There we go.
And then I'll report back mammal because it doesn't matter if I have a lab whose name is Franki as long
as it's a dog species is always going to be a mammal.
So any dog regardless of their breed or name will always have the same species attribute.
So that's the purpose of a class object attribute it's an attribute you want to have permanently set
beyond whatever the user of this class can provide.
OK so that's going to be something that's always true regardless of the instance of the dog.
So so far we've discussed the basics of the class syntax and the basics of attribute calls including
this method in order to assign attributes to a new instance of the dog object as well as class object
attributes which is going to be the same attribute regardless of whatever specific attributes were declared
in the init method.
Coming up next in part two we'll begin to discuss other methods you can add in to a class.
We'll see if they're.